---
layout: post
title: Survey - BioScience LLMs 
lecture: 25sp-w2.2-bioLM
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: instructor
video: llm in life science
tags:
- BasicLLM
desc: 2025-S2
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- DomainAdapt
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 


####  Scientific Large Language Models: A Survey on Biological & Chemical Domains
+ [https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14656](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14656)
+ Qiang Zhang, Keyang Ding, Tianwen Lyv, Xinda Wang, Qingyu Yin, Yiwen Zhang, Jing Yu, Yuhao Wang, Xiaotong Li, Zhuoyi Xiang, Kehua Feng, Xiang Zhuang, Zeyuan Wang, Ming Qin, Mengyao Zhang, Jinlu Zhang, Jiyu Cui, Tao Huang, Pengju Yan, Renjun Xu, Hongyang Chen, Xiaolin Li, Xiaohui Fan, Huabin Xing, Huajun Chen
+ Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as a transformative power in enhancing natural language comprehension, representing a significant stride toward artificial general intelligence. The application of LLMs extends beyond conventional linguistic boundaries, encompassing specialized linguistic systems developed within various scientific disciplines. This growing interest has led to the advent of scientific LLMs, a novel subclass specifically engineered for facilitating scientific discovery. As a burgeoning area in the community of AI for Science, scientific LLMs warrant comprehensive exploration. However, a systematic and up-to-date survey introducing them is currently lacking. In this paper, we endeavor to methodically delineate the concept of "scientific language", whilst providing a thorough review of the latest advancements in scientific LLMs. Given the expansive realm of scientific disciplines, our analysis adopts a focused lens, concentrating on the biological and chemical domains. This includes an in-depth examination of LLMs for textual knowledge, small molecules, macromolecular proteins, genomic sequences, and their combinations, analyzing them in terms of model architectures, capabilities, datasets, and evaluation. Finally, we critically examine the prevailing challenges and point out promising research directions along with the advances of LLMs. By offering a comprehensive overview of technical developments in this field, this survey aspires to be an invaluable resource for researchers navigating the intricate landscape of scientific LLMs.





#### Computational Protein Science in the Era of Large Language Models (LLMs)
+ [https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10282](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10282)
+ Wenqi Fan, Yi Zhou, Shijie Wang, Yuyao Yan, Hui Liu, Qian Zhao, Le Song, Qing Li
+ Considering the significance of proteins, computational protein science has always been a critical scientific field, dedicated to revealing knowledge and developing applications within the protein sequence-structure-function paradigm. In the last few decades, Artificial Intelligence (AI) has made significant impacts in computational protein science, leading to notable successes in specific protein modeling tasks. However, those previous AI models still meet limitations, such as the difficulty in comprehending the semantics of protein sequences, and the inability to generalize across a wide range of protein modeling tasks. Recently, LLMs have emerged as a milestone in AI due to their unprecedented language processing & generalization capability. They can promote comprehensive progress in fields rather than solving individual tasks. As a result, researchers have actively introduced LLM techniques in computational protein science, developing protein Language Models (pLMs) that skillfully grasp the foundational knowledge of proteins and can be effectively generalized to solve a diversity of sequence-structure-function reasoning problems. While witnessing prosperous developments, it's necessary to present a systematic overview of computational protein science empowered by LLM techniques. First, we summarize existing pLMs into categories based on their mastered protein knowledge, i.e., underlying sequence patterns, explicit structural and functional information, and external scientific languages. Second, we introduce the utilization and adaptation of pLMs, highlighting their remarkable achievements in promoting protein structure prediction, protein function prediction, and protein design studies. Then, we describe the practical application of pLMs in antibody design, enzyme design, and drug discovery. Finally, we specifically discuss the promising future directions in this fast-growing field.


## Extra Readings: 


#### From Medprompt to o1: Exploration of Run-Time Strategies for Medical Challenge Problems and Beyond
+ Harsha Nori, Naoto Usuyama, Nicholas King, Scott Mayer McKinney, Xavier Fernandes, Sheng Zhang, Eric Horvitz
+ Run-time steering strategies like Medprompt are valuable for guiding large language models (LLMs) to top performance on challenging tasks. Medprompt demonstrates that a general LLM can be focused to deliver state-of-the-art performance on specialized domains like medicine by using a prompt to elicit a run-time strategy involving chain of thought reasoning and ensembling. OpenAI's o1-preview model represents a new paradigm, where a model is designed to do run-time reasoning before generating final responses. We seek to understand the behavior of o1-preview on a diverse set of medical challenge problem benchmarks. Following on the Medprompt study with GPT-4, we systematically evaluate the o1-preview model across various medical benchmarks. Notably, even without prompting techniques, o1-preview largely outperforms the GPT-4 series with Medprompt. We further systematically study the efficacy of classic prompt engineering strategies, as represented by Medprompt, within the new paradigm of reasoning models. We found that few-shot prompting hinders o1's performance, suggesting that in-context learning may no longer be an effective steering approach for reasoning-native models. While ensembling remains viable, it is resource-intensive and requires careful cost-performance optimization. Our cost and accuracy analysis across run-time strategies reveals a Pareto frontier, with GPT-4o representing a more affordable option and o1-preview achieving state-of-the-art performance at higher cost. Although o1-preview offers top performance, GPT-4o with steering strategies like Medprompt retains value in specific contexts. Moreover, we note that the o1-preview model has reached near-saturation on many existing medical benchmarks, underscoring the need for new, challenging benchmarks. We close with reflections on general directions for inference-time computation with LLMs.


#### A Survey on Medical Large Language Models: Technology, Application, Trustworthiness, and Future Directions
+ Lei Liu, Xiaoyan Yang, Junchi Lei, Yue Shen, Jian Wang, Peng Wei, Zhixuan Chu, Zhan Qin, Kui Ren
+ With the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs), medical artificial intelligence (AI) has experienced substantial technological progress and paradigm shifts, highlighting the potential of LLMs to streamline healthcare delivery and improve patient outcomes. Considering this rapid technical progress, in this survey, we trace the recent advances of Medical Large Language Models (Med-LLMs), including the background, key findings, and mainstream techniques, especially for the evolution from general-purpose models to medical-specialized applications. Firstly, we delve into the foundational technology of Med-LLMs, indicating how general models can be progressively adapted and refined for the complicated medical tasks. Secondly, the wide-ranging applications of Med-LLMs are investigated across various healthcare domains, as well as an up-to-date review of existing Med-LLMs. The transformative impact of these models on daily medical practice is evident through their ability to assist clinicians, educators, and patients. Recognizing the importance of responsible innovation, we discuss the challenges associated with ensuring fairness, accountability, privacy, and robustness. Ethical considerations, rigorous evaluation methodologies, and the establishment of regulatory frameworks are crucial for building trustworthiness in the real-world system. We emphasize the need for ongoing scrutiny and development to maintain high standards of safety and reliability. Finally, we anticipate possible future trajectories for Med-LLMs, identifying key avenues for prudent expansion. By consolidating these insights, our review aims to provide professionals and researchers with a thorough understanding of the strengths and limitations of Med-LLMs, fostering a balanced and ethical approach to their integration into the healthcare ecosystem. 


#### A Survey of Large Language Models for Healthcare: from Data, Technology, and Applications to Accountability and Ethics
+ Kai He, Rui Mao, Qika Lin, Yucheng Ruan, Xiang Lan, Mengling Feng, Erik Cambria
+ The utilization of large language models (LLMs) in the Healthcare domain has generated both excitement and concern due to their ability to effectively respond to freetext queries with certain professional knowledge. This survey outlines the capabilities of the currently developed LLMs for Healthcare and explicates their development process, with the aim of providing an overview of the development roadmap from traditional Pretrained Language Models (PLMs) to LLMs. Specifically, we first explore the potential of LLMs to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of various Healthcare applications highlighting both the strengths and limitations. Secondly, we conduct a comparison between the previous PLMs and the latest LLMs, as well as comparing various LLMs with each other. Then we summarize related Healthcare training data, training methods, optimization strategies, and usage. Finally, the unique concerns associated with deploying LLMs in Healthcare settings are investigated, particularly regarding fairness, accountability, transparency and ethics. Our survey provide a comprehensive investigation from perspectives of both computer science and Healthcare specialty. Besides the discussion about Healthcare concerns, we supports the computer science community by compiling a collection of open source resources, such as accessible datasets, the latest methodologies, code implementations, and evaluation benchmarks in the Github. Summarily, we contend that a significant paradigm shift is underway, transitioning from PLMs to LLMs. This shift encompasses a move from discriminative AI approaches to generative AI approaches, as well as a shift from model-centered methodologies to data-centered methodologies. Also, we determine that the biggest obstacle of using LLMs in Healthcare are fairness, accountability, transparency and ethics.


<!--excerpt.start-->
