---
layout: post
title: multimodal FMs - video generation 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: 
video: team-2
tags:
- 
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 


#### NVLM: Open Frontier-Class Multimodal LLMs
+ [Submitted on 17 Sep 2024 (v1), last revised 22 Oct 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ Wenliang Dai, Nayeon Lee, Boxin Wang, Zhuolin Yang, Zihan Liu, Jon Barker, Tuomas Rintamaki, Mohammad Shoeybi, Bryan Catanzaro, Wei Ping
+ We introduce NVLM 1.0, a family of frontier-class multimodal large language models (LLMs) that achieve state-of-the-art results on vision-language tasks, rivaling the leading proprietary models (e.g., GPT-4o) and open-access models (e.g., Llama 3-V 405B and InternVL 2). Remarkably, NVLM 1.0 shows improved text-only performance over its LLM backbone after multimodal training. In terms of model design, we perform a comprehensive comparison between decoder-only multimodal LLMs (e.g., LLaVA) and cross-attention-based models (e.g., Flamingo). Based on the strengths and weaknesses of both approaches, we propose a novel architecture that enhances both training efficiency and multimodal reasoning capabilities. Furthermore, we introduce a 1-D tile-tagging design for tile-based dynamic high-resolution images, which significantly boosts performance on multimodal reasoning and OCR-related tasks. Regarding training data, we meticulously curate and provide detailed information on our multimodal pretraining and supervised fine-tuning datasets. Our findings indicate that dataset quality and task diversity are more important than scale, even during the pretraining phase, across all architectures. Notably, we develop production-grade multimodality for the NVLM-1.0 models, enabling them to excel in vision-language tasks while maintaining and even improving text-only performance compared to their LLM backbones. To achieve this, we craft and integrate a high-quality text-only dataset into multimodal training, alongside a substantial amount of multimodal math and reasoning data, leading to enhanced math and coding capabilities across modalities. To advance research in the field, we release the model weights at this https URL and will open-source the training code for the community soon.

+ There are two main approaches to building multimodal LLMs:
   	- Method A: Unified Embedding Decoder Architecture approach;
	- Method B: Cross-modality Attention Architecture approach.
+ Directly compared:
	- Method A: The Unified Embedding Decoder Architecture ("decoder-only architecture," NVLM-D),
	- Method B: The Cross-Modality Attention Architecture ("cross-attention-based architecture," NVLM-X),
	- A hybrid approach (NVLM-H).
+ Key findings are as follows:
	- NVLM-X: Offers superior computational efficiency for high-resolution images.
	- NVLM-D: Delivers higher accuracy for OCR-related tasks.
	- NVLM-H: Combines the strengths of both approaches for optimal performance.


#### LLMs Meet Multimodal Generation and Editing: A Survey
+ [Submitted on 29 May 2024 (v1), last revised 9 Jun 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ Yingqing He, Zhaoyang Liu, Jingye Chen, Zeyue Tian, Hongyu Liu, Xiaowei Chi, Runtao Liu, Ruibin Yuan, Yazhou Xing, Wenhai Wang, Jifeng Dai, Yong Zhang, Wei Xue, Qifeng Liu, Yike Guo, Qifeng Chen
+ With the recent advancement in large language models (LLMs), there is a growing interest in combining LLMs with multimodal learning. Previous surveys of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) mainly focus on multimodal understanding. This survey elaborates on multimodal generation and editing across various domains, comprising image, video, 3D, and audio. Specifically, we summarize the notable advancements with milestone works in these fields and categorize these studies into LLM-based and CLIP/T5-based methods. Then, we summarize the various roles of LLMs in multimodal generation and exhaustively investigate the critical technical components behind these methods and the multimodal datasets utilized in these studies. Additionally, we dig into tool-augmented multimodal agents that can leverage existing generative models for human-computer interaction. Lastly, we discuss the advancements in the generative AI safety field, investigate emerging applications, and discuss future prospects. Our work provides a systematic and insightful overview of multimodal generation and processing, which is expected to advance the development of Artificial Intelligence for Generative Content (AIGC) and world models. A curated list of all related papers can be found at this https URL



## More Readings: 

