---
layout: post
title: Platform - context construction via RAG and Agent
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-6
video: team-6
tags:
- 
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 




#### Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation: A Survey on Agentic RAG
+ [Submitted on 15 Jan 2025]
+ Aditi Singh, Abul Ehtesham, Saket Kumar, Tala Talaei Khoei
+ Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized artificial intelligence (AI) by enabling human like text generation and natural language understanding. However, their reliance on static training data limits their ability to respond to dynamic, real time queries, resulting in outdated or inaccurate outputs. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a solution, enhancing LLMs by integrating real time data retrieval to provide contextually relevant and up-to-date responses. Despite its promise, traditional RAG systems are constrained by static workflows and lack the adaptability required for multistep reasoning and complex task management. Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation (Agentic RAG) transcends these limitations by embedding autonomous AI agents into the RAG pipeline. These agents leverage agentic design patterns reflection, planning, tool use, and multiagent collaboration to dynamically manage retrieval strategies, iteratively refine contextual understanding, and adapt workflows to meet complex task requirements. This integration enables Agentic RAG systems to deliver unparalleled flexibility, scalability, and context awareness across diverse applications.
This survey provides a comprehensive exploration of Agentic RAG, beginning with its foundational principles and the evolution of RAG paradigms. It presents a detailed taxonomy of Agentic RAG architectures, highlights key applications in industries such as healthcare, finance, and education, and examines practical implementation strategies. Additionally, it addresses challenges in scaling these systems, ensuring ethical decision making, and optimizing performance for real-world applications, while providing detailed insights into frameworks and tools for implementing Agentic RAG
   


#### Agent white paper 
+ [https://www.kaggle.com/whitepaper-agents](https://www.kaggle.com/whitepaper-agents)
+  Google recently published a whitepaper on AI Agents that everyone should read. It covers everything you need to know about this new wave.
	- Introduction to AI Agents
	- The role of tools in Agents
	- Enhancing model performance with targeted learning
	- Quick start to Agents with LangChain
	- Production applications with Vertex AI Agents


## More Readings: 


