---
layout: post
title: advanced LLM - for math reasoning / coding   
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-2
video: team-2
tags:
- 
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 



#### Large Language Models for Mathematical Reasoning: Progresses and Challenges
+ Janice Ahn, Rishu Verma, Renze Lou, Di Liu, Rui Zhang, Wenpeng Yin
+ [Submitted on 31 Jan 2024 (v1), last revised 16 Sep 2024 (this version, v4)]
+ Mathematical reasoning serves as a cornerstone for assessing the fundamental cognitive capabilities of human intelligence. In recent times, there has been a notable surge in the development of Large Language Models (LLMs) geared towards the automated resolution of mathematical problems. However, the landscape of mathematical problem types is vast and varied, with LLM-oriented techniques undergoing evaluation across diverse datasets and settings. This diversity makes it challenging to discern the true advancements and obstacles within this burgeoning field. This survey endeavors to address four pivotal dimensions: i) a comprehensive exploration of the various mathematical problems and their corresponding datasets that have been investigated; ii) an examination of the spectrum of LLM-oriented techniques that have been proposed for mathematical problem-solving; iii) an overview of factors and concerns affecting LLMs in solving math; and iv) an elucidation of the persisting challenges within this domain. To the best of our knowledge, this survey stands as one of the first extensive examinations of the landscape of LLMs in the realm of mathematics, providing a holistic perspective on the current state, accomplishments, and future challenges in this rapidly evolving field.


#### Language Models for Code Optimization: Survey, Challenges and Future Directions

[Submitted on 2 Jan 2025 (v1), last revised 3 Jan 2025 (this version, v2)]

Jingzhi Gong, Vardan Voskanyan, Paul Brookes, Fan Wu, Wei Jie, Jie Xu, Rafail Giavrimis, Mike Basios, Leslie Kanthan, Zheng Wang
Language models (LMs) built upon deep neural networks (DNNs) have recently demonstrated breakthrough effectiveness in software engineering tasks such as code generation, completion, and repair. This has paved the way for the emergence of LM-based code optimization techniques, which are crucial for enhancing the performance of existing programs, such as accelerating program execution time. However, a comprehensive survey dedicated to this specific application has been lacking. To fill this gap, we present a systematic literature review of over 50 primary studies, identifying emerging trends and addressing 11 specialized questions. Our findings reveal five critical open challenges, such as balancing model complexity with practical usability, cross-language/performance generalizability, and building trust in AI-driven solutions. Furthermore, we provide eight future research directions to facilitate more efficient, robust, and reliable LM-based code optimization. Thereby, this study aims to provide actionable insights and foundational references for both researchers and practitioners in this rapidly evolving field.



#### A Survey of Deep Learning for Mathematical Reasoning
+ Pan Lu, Liang Qiu, Wenhao Yu, Sean Welleck, Kai-Wei Chang
+ [Submitted on 20 Dec 2022 (v1), last revised 22 Jun 2023 (this version, v2)]
+ Mathematical reasoning is a fundamental aspect of human intelligence and is applicable in various fields, including science, engineering, finance, and everyday life. The development of artificial intelligence (AI) systems capable of solving math problems and proving theorems has garnered significant interest in the fields of machine learning and natural language processing. For example, mathematics serves as a testbed for aspects of reasoning that are challenging for powerful deep learning models, driving new algorithmic and modeling advances. On the other hand, recent advances in large-scale neural language models have opened up new benchmarks and opportunities to use deep learning for mathematical reasoning. In this survey paper, we review the key tasks, datasets, and methods at the intersection of mathematical reasoning and deep learning over the past decade. We also evaluate existing benchmarks and methods, and discuss future research directions in this domain.




#### DeepSeek-Coder-V2: Breaking the Barrier of Closed-Source Models in Code Intelligence
+ DeepSeek-AI, Qihao Zhu, Daya Guo, Zhihong Shao, Dejian Yang, Peiyi Wang, Runxin Xu, Y. Wu, + Yukun Li, Huazuo Gao, Shirong Ma, Wangding Zeng, Xiao Bi, Zihui Gu, Hanwei Xu, Damai Dai, Kai Dong, Liyue Zhang, Yishi Piao, Zhibin Gou, Zhenda Xie, Zhewen Hao, Bingxuan Wang, Junxiao Song, Deli Chen, Xin Xie, Kang Guan, Yuxiang You, Aixin Liu, Qiushi Du, Wenjun Gao, Xuan Lu, Qinyu Chen, Yaohui Wang, Chengqi Deng, Jiashi Li, Chenggang Zhao, Chong Ruan, Fuli Luo, Wenfeng Liang
+ We present DeepSeek-Coder-V2, an open-source Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) code language model that achieves performance comparable to GPT4-Turbo in code-specific tasks. Specifically, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 is further pre-trained from an intermediate checkpoint of DeepSeek-V2 with additional 6 trillion tokens. Through this continued pre-training, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 substantially enhances the coding and mathematical reasoning capabilities of DeepSeek-V2, while maintaining comparable performance in general language tasks. Compared to DeepSeek-Coder-33B, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 demonstrates significant advancements in various aspects of code-related tasks, as well as reasoning and general capabilities. Additionally, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 expands its support for programming languages from 86 to 338, while extending the context length from 16K to 128K. In standard benchmark evaluations, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 achieves superior performance compared to closed-source models such as GPT4-Turbo, Claude 3 Opus, and Gemini 1.5 Pro in coding and math benchmarks.


## More Readings: 

