---
layout: post
title:  advanced LLM - Inference Scale law  / Deepseek
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-4
video: team-4
tags:
- 
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

#### Inference Scaling Laws: An Empirical Analysis of Compute-Optimal Inference for Problem-Solving with Language Models
+ [Submitted on 1 Aug 2024 (v1), last revised 14 Oct 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ Yangzhen Wu, Zhiqing Sun, Shanda Li, Sean Welleck, Yiming Yang
+ While the scaling laws of large language models (LLMs) training have been extensively studied, optimal inference configurations of LLMs remain underexplored. We study inference scaling laws and compute-optimal inference, focusing on the trade-offs between model sizes and generating additional tokens with different inference strategies. As a first step towards understanding and designing compute-optimal inference methods, we studied cost-performance trade-offs for inference strategies such as greedy search, majority voting, best-of-n, weighted voting, and two different tree search algorithms, using different model sizes and compute budgets. Our findings indicate smaller models (e.g., Llemma-7B) can outperform larger models given the same computation budgets, and that smaller models paired with advanced inference algorithms yield Pareto-optimal cost-performance trade-offs. For instance, the Llemma-7B model, equipped with our novel tree search algorithm, consistently outperforms Llemma-34B with standard majority voting on the MATH benchmark across all FLOPs budgets. We hope these findings contribute to a broader understanding of inference scaling laws for LLMs.



#### DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models
+ Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang, Mingchuan Zhang, Y.K. Li, Y. Wu, Daya Guo
+ Mathematical reasoning poses a significant challenge for language models due to its complex and structured nature. In this paper, we introduce DeepSeekMath 7B, which continues pre-training DeepSeek-Coder-Base-v1.5 7B with 120B math-related tokens sourced from Common Crawl, together with natural language and code data. DeepSeekMath 7B has achieved an impressive score of 51.7% on the competition-level MATH benchmark without relying on external toolkits and voting techniques, approaching the performance level of Gemini-Ultra and GPT-4. Self-consistency over 64 samples from DeepSeekMath 7B achieves 60.9% on MATH. The mathematical reasoning capability of DeepSeekMath is attributed to two key factors: First, we harness the significant potential of publicly available web data through a meticulously engineered data selection pipeline. Second, we introduce Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), a variant of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), that enhances mathematical reasoning abilities while concurrently optimizing the memory usage of PPO.
+ Elements: 
  - Both Deepseek and Qwen use GRPO in post-training! Group Relative Policy Optimization or GRPO was introduced in the DeepSeekMath Paper last year to improve mathematical reasoning capabilities with less memory consumption, but is now used in an online way also to improve Truthfulness, Helpfulness, Conciseness… 
  - Generate multiple outputs for each input question using the current Policy
  - Score these outputs using a reward model
  - Average the rewards and use it as a baseline to compute the advantages
  - Update the Policy to maximize the GRPO objective, which includes the advantages and a KL term
+ Insights: 
  - Doesn’t need value function model, reducing memory and complexity
  - Adds KL term directly to the loss rather than in the reward
  - Works with rule-based Reward Models and Generative/Score based RM
  - Looks similar to RLOO method
  - DS 3 improved coding, math, writing, role-playing, and question answering
  



#### DeepSeek-V3 Technical Report
+ DeepSeek-AI, (100 additional authors not shown)
+ We present DeepSeek-V3, a strong Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) language model with 671B total parameters with 37B activated for each token. To achieve efficient inference and cost-effective training, DeepSeek-V3 adopts Multi-head Latent Attention (MLA) and DeepSeekMoE architectures, which were thoroughly validated in DeepSeek-V2. Furthermore, DeepSeek-V3 pioneers an auxiliary-loss-free strategy for load balancing and sets a multi-token prediction training objective for stronger performance. We pre-train DeepSeek-V3 on 14.8 trillion diverse and high-quality tokens, followed by Supervised Fine-Tuning and Reinforcement Learning stages to fully harness its capabilities. Comprehensive evaluations reveal that DeepSeek-V3 outperforms other open-source models and achieves performance comparable to leading closed-source models. Despite its excellent performance, DeepSeek-V3 requires only 2.788M H800 GPU hours for its full training. In addition, its training process is remarkably stable. Throughout the entire training process, we did not experience any irrecoverable loss spikes or perform any rollbacks. The model checkpoints are available at this https URL.




#### DeepSeek-Coder-V2: Breaking the Barrier of Closed-Source Models in Code Intelligence
+ DeepSeek-AI, Qihao Zhu, Daya Guo, Zhihong Shao, Dejian Yang, Peiyi Wang, Runxin Xu, Y. Wu, + Yukun Li, Huazuo Gao, Shirong Ma, Wangding Zeng, Xiao Bi, Zihui Gu, Hanwei Xu, Damai Dai, Kai Dong, Liyue Zhang, Yishi Piao, Zhibin Gou, Zhenda Xie, Zhewen Hao, Bingxuan Wang, Junxiao Song, Deli Chen, Xin Xie, Kang Guan, Yuxiang You, Aixin Liu, Qiushi Du, Wenjun Gao, Xuan Lu, Qinyu Chen, Yaohui Wang, Chengqi Deng, Jiashi Li, Chenggang Zhao, Chong Ruan, Fuli Luo, Wenfeng Liang
+ We present DeepSeek-Coder-V2, an open-source Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) code language model that achieves performance comparable to GPT4-Turbo in code-specific tasks. Specifically, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 is further pre-trained from an intermediate checkpoint of DeepSeek-V2 with additional 6 trillion tokens. Through this continued pre-training, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 substantially enhances the coding and mathematical reasoning capabilities of DeepSeek-V2, while maintaining comparable performance in general language tasks. Compared to DeepSeek-Coder-33B, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 demonstrates significant advancements in various aspects of code-related tasks, as well as reasoning and general capabilities. Additionally, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 expands its support for programming languages from 86 to 338, while extending the context length from 16K to 128K. In standard benchmark evaluations, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 achieves superior performance compared to closed-source models such as GPT4-Turbo, Claude 3 Opus, and Gemini 1.5 Pro in coding and math benchmarks.




## More Readings: 


#### AI Capabilities Can Be Significantly Improved Without Expensive Retraining
+ https://epoch.ai/blog/ai-capabilities-can-be-significantly-improved-without-expensive-retraining
