---
layout: post
title: Agent - multiagent collaboration 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: 
video: team-5
tags:
- Multiagent
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- Agent 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

#### OmniParser v2: Advanced vision-based screen parsing for precisely grounded UI actions


#### Magentic-One: A generalist multi-agent system built on AutoGen

#### Multi-Agent Collaboration Mechanisms: A Survey of LLMs
Khanh-Tung Tran, Dung Dao, Minh-Duong Nguyen, Quoc-Viet Pham, Barry O'Sullivan, Hoang D. Nguyen
With recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs), Agentic AI has become phenomenal in real-world applications, moving toward multiple LLM-based agents to perceive, learn, reason, and act collaboratively. These LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems (MASs) enable groups of intelligent agents to coordinate and solve complex tasks collectively at scale, transitioning from isolated models to collaboration-centric approaches. This work provides an extensive survey of the collaborative aspect of MASs and introduces an extensible framework to guide future research. Our framework characterizes collaboration mechanisms based on key dimensions: actors (agents involved), types (e.g., cooperation, competition, or coopetition), structures (e.g., peer-to-peer, centralized, or distributed), strategies (e.g., role-based or model-based), and coordination protocols. Through a review of existing methodologies, our findings serve as a foundation for demystifying and advancing LLM-based MASs toward more intelligent and collaborative solutions for complex, real-world use cases. In addition, various applications of MASs across diverse domains, including 5G/6G networks, Industry 5.0, question answering, and social and cultural settings, are also investigated, demonstrating their wider adoption and broader impacts. Finally, we identify key lessons learned, open challenges, and potential research directions of MASs towards artificial collective intelligence.




#### A Review of Prominent Paradigms for LLM-Based Agents: Tool Use (Including RAG), Planning, and Feedback Learning
+ [https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.05804](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.05804)
+ [Submitted on 9 Jun 2024 (v1), last revised 30 Nov 2024 (this version, v6)] Xinzhe Li
+ Tool use, planning, and feedback learning are currently three prominent paradigms for developing Large Language Model (LLM)-based agents across various tasks. Although numerous frameworks have been devised for each paradigm, their intricate workflows and inconsistent taxonomy create challenges in understanding and reviewing the frameworks across different paradigms. This survey introduces a unified taxonomy to systematically review and discuss these frameworks. Specifically, 1) the taxonomy defines environments/tasks, common LLM-profiled roles or LMPRs (policy models, evaluators, and dynamic models), and universally applicable workflows found in prior work, and 2) it enables a comparison of key perspectives on the implementations of LMPRs and workflow designs across different agent paradigms and frameworks. 3) Finally, we identify three limitations in existing workflow designs and systematically discuss the future work. Resources have been made publicly available at in our GitHub repository this https URL.
+ Comments:	CoLing 2025 Camera Ready (extended to 9 pages)

#### Agent-as-a-Judge: Evaluate Agents with Agents
+ [Submitted on 14 Oct 2024 (v1), last revised 16 Oct 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ Mingchen Zhuge, Changsheng Zhao, Dylan Ashley, Wenyi Wang, Dmitrii Khizbullin, Yunyang Xiong, Zechun Liu, Ernie Chang, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Yuandong Tian, Yangyang Shi, Vikas Chandra, Jürgen Schmidhuber
+ Contemporary evaluation techniques are inadequate for agentic systems. These approaches either focus exclusively on final outcomes -- ignoring the step-by-step nature of agentic systems, or require excessive manual labour. To address this, we introduce the Agent-as-a-Judge framework, wherein agentic systems are used to evaluate agentic systems. This is an organic extension of the LLM-as-a-Judge framework, incorporating agentic features that enable intermediate feedback for the entire task-solving process. We apply the Agent-as-a-Judge to the task of code generation. To overcome issues with existing benchmarks and provide a proof-of-concept testbed for Agent-as-a-Judge, we present DevAI, a new benchmark of 55 realistic automated AI development tasks. It includes rich manual annotations, like a total of 365 hierarchical user requirements. We benchmark three of the popular agentic systems using Agent-as-a-Judge and find it dramatically outperforms LLM-as-a-Judge and is as reliable as our human evaluation baseline. Altogether, we believe that Agent-as-a-Judge marks a concrete step forward for modern agentic systems -- by providing rich and reliable reward signals necessary for dynamic and scalable self-improvement.
Comments:	The project can be found at this https URL. The dataset is released at this https URL




#### A Survey on Large Language Model based Autonomous Agents
+ [Submitted on 22 Aug 2023 (v1), last revised 15 Dec 2024 (this version, v6)]
+ [URL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11432)
+ Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Wei, Ji-Rong Wen
+ Autonomous agents have long been a prominent research focus in both academic and industry communities. Previous research in this field often focuses on training agents with limited knowledge within isolated environments, which diverges significantly from human learning processes, and thus makes the agents hard to achieve human-like decisions. Recently, through the acquisition of vast amounts of web knowledge, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in achieving human-level intelligence. This has sparked an upsurge in studies investigating LLM-based autonomous agents. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey of these studies, delivering a systematic review of the field of LLM-based autonomous agents from a holistic perspective. More specifically, we first discuss the construction of LLM-based autonomous agents, for which we propose a unified framework that encompasses a majority of the previous work. Then, we present a comprehensive overview of the diverse applications of LLM-based autonomous agents in the fields of social science, natural science, and engineering. Finally, we delve into the evaluation strategies commonly used for LLM-based autonomous agents. Based on the previous studies, we also present several challenges and future directions in this field. To keep track of this field and continuously update our survey, we maintain a repository of relevant references at this https URL.
Comments:	change several 35 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables



#### Deploying Foundation Model Powered Agent Services: A Survey
+ Wenchao Xu, Jinyu Chen, Peirong Zheng, Xiaoquan Yi, Tianyi Tian, Wenhui Zhu, Quan Wan, Haozhao Wang, Yunfeng Fan, Qinliang Su, Xuemin Shen
+ [Submitted on 18 Dec 2024]
+ Foundation model (FM) powered agent services are regarded as a promising solution to develop intelligent and personalized applications for advancing toward Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). To achieve high reliability and scalability in deploying these agent services, it is essential to collaboratively optimize computational and communication resources, thereby ensuring effective resource allocation and seamless service delivery. In pursuit of this vision, this paper proposes a unified framework aimed at providing a comprehensive survey on deploying FM-based agent services across heterogeneous devices, with the emphasis on the integration of model and resource optimization to establish a robust infrastructure for these services. Particularly, this paper begins with exploring various low-level optimization strategies during inference and studies approaches that enhance system scalability, such as parallelism techniques and resource scaling methods. The paper then discusses several prominent FMs and investigates research efforts focused on inference acceleration, including techniques such as model compression and token reduction. Moreover, the paper also investigates critical components for constructing agent services and highlights notable intelligent applications. Finally, the paper presents potential research directions for developing real-time agent services with high Quality of Service (QoS).

#### GUI Agents: A Survey
+ [Submitted on 18 Dec 2024]
+ Dang Nguyen, Jian Chen, Yu Wang, Gang Wu, Namyong Park, Zhengmian Hu, Hanjia Lyu, Junda Wu, Ryan Aponte, Yu Xia, Xintong Li, Jing Shi, Hongjie Chen, Viet Dac Lai, Zhouhang Xie, Sungchul Kim, Ruiyi Zhang, Tong Yu, Mehrab Tanjim, Nesreen K. Ahmed, Puneet Mathur, Seunghyun Yoon, Lina Yao, Branislav Kveton, Thien Huu Nguyen, Trung Bui, Tianyi Zhou, Ryan A. Rossi, Franck Dernoncourt
+ Graphical User Interface (GUI) agents, powered by Large Foundation Models, have emerged as a transformative approach to automating human-computer interaction. These agents autonomously interact with digital systems or software applications via GUIs, emulating human actions such as clicking, typing, and navigating visual elements across diverse platforms. Motivated by the growing interest and fundamental importance of GUI agents, we provide a comprehensive survey that categorizes their benchmarks, evaluation metrics, architectures, and training methods. We propose a unified framework that delineates their perception, reasoning, planning, and acting capabilities. Furthermore, we identify important open challenges and discuss key future directions. Finally, this work serves as a basis for practitioners and researchers to gain an intuitive understanding of current progress, techniques, benchmarks, and critical open problems that remain to be addressed.
  


## More Readings: 


#### Agent Laboratory: Using LLM Agents as Research Assistants
+ [Submitted on 8 Jan 2025]
+ Samuel Schmidgall, Yusheng Su, Ze Wang, Ximeng Sun, Jialian Wu, Xiaodong Yu, Jiang Liu, Zicheng Liu, Emad Barsoum
+ Historically, scientific discovery has been a lengthy and costly process, demanding substantial time and resources from initial conception to final results. To accelerate scientific discovery, reduce research costs, and improve research quality, we introduce Agent Laboratory, an autonomous LLM-based framework capable of completing the entire research process. This framework accepts a human-provided research idea and progresses through three stages--literature review, experimentation, and report writing to produce comprehensive research outputs, including a code repository and a research report, while enabling users to provide feedback and guidance at each stage. We deploy Agent Laboratory with various state-of-the-art LLMs and invite multiple researchers to assess its quality by participating in a survey, providing human feedback to guide the research process, and then evaluate the final paper. We found that: (1) Agent Laboratory driven by o1-preview generates the best research outcomes; (2) The generated machine learning code is able to achieve state-of-the-art performance compared to existing methods; (3) Human involvement, providing feedback at each stage, significantly improves the overall quality of research; (4) Agent Laboratory significantly reduces research expenses, achieving an 84% decrease compared to previous autonomous research methods. We hope Agent Laboratory enables researchers to allocate more effort toward creative ideation rather than low-level coding and writing, ultimately accelerating scientific discovery.
  