---
layout: post
title: Platform - More Agent 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: 
video: team-2  
tags:
- 
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 



#### Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation: A Survey on Agentic RAG
+ [Submitted on 15 Jan 2025]
+ Aditi Singh, Abul Ehtesham, Saket Kumar, Tala Talaei Khoei
+ Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized artificial intelligence (AI) by enabling human like text generation and natural language understanding. However, their reliance on static training data limits their ability to respond to dynamic, real time queries, resulting in outdated or inaccurate outputs. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a solution, enhancing LLMs by integrating real time data retrieval to provide contextually relevant and up-to-date responses. Despite its promise, traditional RAG systems are constrained by static workflows and lack the adaptability required for multistep reasoning and complex task management. Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation (Agentic RAG) transcends these limitations by embedding autonomous AI agents into the RAG pipeline. These agents leverage agentic design patterns reflection, planning, tool use, and multiagent collaboration to dynamically manage retrieval strategies, iteratively refine contextual understanding, and adapt workflows to meet complex task requirements. This integration enables Agentic RAG systems to deliver unparalleled flexibility, scalability, and context awareness across diverse applications.
This survey provides a comprehensive exploration of Agentic RAG, beginning with its foundational principles and the evolution of RAG paradigms. It presents a detailed taxonomy of Agentic RAG architectures, highlights key applications in industries such as healthcare, finance, and education, and examines practical implementation strategies. Additionally, it addresses challenges in scaling these systems, ensuring ethical decision making, and optimizing performance for real-world applications, while providing detailed insights into frameworks and tools for implementing Agentic RAG
   


#### A Survey on Large Language Model based Autonomous Agents
+ [Submitted on 22 Aug 2023 (v1), last revised 15 Dec 2024 (this version, v6)]
+ [URL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11432)
+ Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Wei, Ji-Rong Wen
+ Autonomous agents have long been a prominent research focus in both academic and industry communities. Previous research in this field often focuses on training agents with limited knowledge within isolated environments, which diverges significantly from human learning processes, and thus makes the agents hard to achieve human-like decisions. Recently, through the acquisition of vast amounts of web knowledge, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in achieving human-level intelligence. This has sparked an upsurge in studies investigating LLM-based autonomous agents. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey of these studies, delivering a systematic review of the field of LLM-based autonomous agents from a holistic perspective. More specifically, we first discuss the construction of LLM-based autonomous agents, for which we propose a unified framework that encompasses a majority of the previous work. Then, we present a comprehensive overview of the diverse applications of LLM-based autonomous agents in the fields of social science, natural science, and engineering. Finally, we delve into the evaluation strategies commonly used for LLM-based autonomous agents. Based on the previous studies, we also present several challenges and future directions in this field. To keep track of this field and continuously update our survey, we maintain a repository of relevant references at this https URL.
Comments:	change several 35 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables




## More Readings: 


#### Don't Do RAG: When Cache-Augmented Generation is All You Need for Knowledge Tasks
+ [Submitted on 20 Dec 2024]
+ Brian J Chan, Chao-Ting Chen, Jui-Hung Cheng, Hen-Hsen Huang
+ Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has gained traction as a powerful approach for enhancing language models by integrating external knowledge sources. However, RAG introduces challenges such as retrieval latency, potential errors in document selection, and increased system complexity. With the advent of large language models (LLMs) featuring significantly extended context windows, this paper proposes an alternative paradigm, cache-augmented generation (CAG) that bypasses real-time retrieval. Our method involves preloading all relevant resources, especially when the documents or knowledge for retrieval are of a limited and manageable size, into the LLM's extended context and caching its runtime parameters. During inference, the model utilizes these preloaded parameters to answer queries without additional retrieval steps. Comparative analyses reveal that CAG eliminates retrieval latency and minimizes retrieval errors while maintaining context relevance. Performance evaluations across multiple benchmarks highlight scenarios where long-context LLMs either outperform or complement traditional RAG pipelines. These findings suggest that, for certain applications, particularly those with a constrained knowledge base, CAG provide a streamlined and efficient alternative to RAG, achieving comparable or superior results with reduced complexity.