---
layout: post
title: Inference test time scaling law 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-5
video: team-5
tags:
- 
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 


#### Scaling LLM Test-Time Compute Optimally can be More Effective than Scaling Model Parameters
+ [Submitted on 6 Aug 2024]
+ [URL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03314?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email)
+ Charlie Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, Aviral Kumar
+ Enabling LLMs to improve their outputs by using more test-time computation is a critical step towards building generally self-improving agents that can operate on open-ended natural language. In this paper, we study the scaling of inference-time computation in LLMs, with a focus on answering the question: if an LLM is allowed to use a fixed but non-trivial amount of inference-time compute, how much can it improve its performance on a challenging prompt? Answering this question has implications not only on the achievable performance of LLMs, but also on the future of LLM pretraining and how one should tradeoff inference-time and pre-training compute. Despite its importance, little research attempted to understand the scaling behaviors of various test-time inference methods. Moreover, current work largely provides negative results for a number of these strategies. In this work, we analyze two primary mechanisms to scale test-time computation: (1) searching against dense, process-based verifier reward models; and (2) updating the model's distribution over a response adaptively, given the prompt at test time. We find that in both cases, the effectiveness of different approaches to scaling test-time compute critically varies depending on the difficulty of the prompt. This observation motivates applying a "compute-optimal" scaling strategy, which acts to most effectively allocate test-time compute adaptively per prompt. Using this compute-optimal strategy, we can improve the efficiency of test-time compute scaling by more than 4x compared to a best-of-N baseline. Additionally, in a FLOPs-matched evaluation, we find that on problems where a smaller base model attains somewhat non-trivial success rates, test-time compute can be used to outperform a 14x larger model.


#### Tulu 3: Pushing Frontiers in Open Language Model Post-Training
+ [URL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15124?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email)
+ [Submitted on 22 Nov 2024 (v1), last revised 29 Jan 2025 (this version, v3)]
+ Nathan Lambert, Jacob Morrison, Valentina Pyatkin, Shengyi Huang, Hamish Ivison, Faeze Brahman, Lester James V. Miranda, Alisa Liu, Nouha Dziri, Shane Lyu, Yuling Gu, Saumya Malik, Victoria Graf, Jena D. Hwang, Jiangjiang Yang, Ronan Le Bras, Oyvind Tafjord, Chris Wilhelm, Luca Soldaini, Noah A. Smith, Yizhong Wang, Pradeep Dasigi, Hannaneh Hajishirzi
+ Language model post-training is applied to refine behaviors and unlock new skills across a wide range of recent language models, but open recipes for applying these techniques lag behind proprietary ones. The underlying training data and recipes for post-training are simultaneously the most important pieces of the puzzle and the portion with the least transparency. To bridge this gap, we introduce Tulu 3, a family of fully-open state-of-the-art post-trained models, alongside its data, code, and training recipes, serving as a comprehensive guide for modern post-training techniques. Tulu 3, which builds on Llama 3.1 base models, achieves results surpassing the instruct versions of Llama 3.1, Qwen 2.5, Mistral, and even closed models such as GPT-4o-mini and Claude 3.5-Haiku. The training algorithms for our models include supervised finetuning (SFT), Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), and a novel method we call Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR). With Tulu 3, we introduce a multi-task evaluation scheme for post-training recipes with development and unseen evaluations, standard benchmark implementations, and substantial decontamination of existing open datasets on said benchmarks. We conclude with analysis and discussion of training methods that did not reliably improve performance.
In addition to the Tulu 3 model weights and demo, we release the complete recipe -- including datasets for diverse core skills, a robust toolkit for data curation and evaluation, the training code and infrastructure, and, most importantly, a detailed report for reproducing and further adapting the Tulu 3 approach to more domains.



#### Inference Scaling Laws: An Empirical Analysis of Compute-Optimal Inference for Problem-Solving with Language Models
+ [Submitted on 1 Aug 2024 (v1), last revised 14 Oct 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ Yangzhen Wu, Zhiqing Sun, Shanda Li, Sean Welleck, Yiming Yang
+ While the scaling laws of large language models (LLMs) training have been extensively studied, optimal inference configurations of LLMs remain underexplored. We study inference scaling laws and compute-optimal inference, focusing on the trade-offs between model sizes and generating additional tokens with different inference strategies. As a first step towards understanding and designing compute-optimal inference methods, we studied cost-performance trade-offs for inference strategies such as greedy search, majority voting, best-of-n, weighted voting, and two different tree search algorithms, using different model sizes and compute budgets. Our findings indicate smaller models (e.g., Llemma-7B) can outperform larger models given the same computation budgets, and that smaller models paired with advanced inference algorithms yield Pareto-optimal cost-performance trade-offs. For instance, the Llemma-7B model, equipped with our novel tree search algorithm, consistently outperforms Llemma-34B with standard majority voting on the MATH benchmark across all FLOPs budgets. We hope these findings contribute to a broader understanding of inference scaling laws for LLMs.


  


## More Readings: 

