---
layout: post
title: Survey - FMs in healthcare and life science 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-1
video: team-1
tags:
- Evaluate
desc: 2025-S3
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- DomainAdapt
---


In this session, our readings cover: 



## Required Readings: 


+ Guo, Lin Lawrence, Jason Fries, Ethan Steinberg, Scott Lanyon Fleming, Keith Morse, Catherine Aftandilian, Jose Posada, Nigam Shah, and Lillian Sung. “A Multi-Center Study on the Adaptability of a Shared Foundation Model for Electronic Health Records.” Npj Digital Medicine 7, no. 1 (June 27, 2024): 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41746-024-01166-w.

Foundation models are transforming artificial intelligence (AI) in healthcare by providing modular components adaptable for various downstream tasks, making AI development more scalable and cost-effective. Foundation models for structured electronic health records (EHR), trained on coded medical records from millions of patients, demonstrated benefits including increased performance with fewer training labels, and improved robustness to distribution shifts. However, questions remain on the feasibility of sharing these models across hospitals and their performance in local tasks. This multi-center study examined the adaptability of a publicly accessible structured EHR foundation model (FMSM), trained on 2.57 M patient records from Stanford Medicine. Experiments used EHR data from The Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids) and Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care (MIMIC-IV). We assessed both adaptability via continued pretraining on local data, and task adaptability compared to baselines of locally training models from scratch, including a local foundation model. Evaluations on 8 clinical prediction tasks showed that adapting the off-the-shelf FMSM matched the performance of gradient boosting machines (GBM) locally trained on all data while providing a 13% improvement in settings with few task-specific training labels. Continued pretraining on local data showed FMSM required fewer than 1% of training examples to match the fully trained GBM’s performance, and was 60 to 90% more sample-efficient than training local foundation models from scratch. Our findings demonstrate that adapting EHR foundation models across hospitals provides improved prediction performance at less cost, underscoring the utility of base foundation models as modular components to streamline the development of healthcare AI.

#### Foundation Model for Advancing Healthcare: Challenges, Opportunities and Future Directions

+ He, Yuting, Fuxiang Huang, Xinrui Jiang, Yuxiang Nie, Minghao Wang, Jiguang Wang, and Hao Chen. “Foundation Model for Advancing Healthcare: Challenges, Opportunities and Future Directions.” IEEE Reviews in Biomedical Engineering PP (November 12, 2024). https://doi.org/10.1109/RBME.2024.3496744.


+ Abstract: Foundation model, trained on a diverse range of data and adaptable to a myriad of tasks, is advancing healthcare. It fosters the development of healthcare artificial intelligence (AI) models tailored to the intricacies of the medical field, bridging the gap between limited AI models and the varied nature of healthcare practices. The advancement of a healthcare foundation model (HFM) brings forth tremendous potential to augment intelligent healthcare services across a broad spectrum of scenarios. However, despite the imminent widespread deployment of HFMs, there is currently a lack of clear understanding regarding their operation in the healthcare field, their existing challenges, and their future trajectory. To answer these critical inquiries, we present a comprehensive and in-depth examination that delves into the landscape of HFMs. It begins with a comprehensive overview of HFMs, encompassing their methods, data, and applications, to provide a quick understanding of the current progress. Subsequently, it delves into a thorough exploration of the challenges associated with data, algorithms, and computing infrastructures in constructing and widely applying foundation models in healthcare. Furthermore, this survey identifies promising directions for future development in this field. We believe that this survey will enhance the community's understanding of the current progress of HFMs and serve as a valuable source of guidance for future advancements in this domain. For the latest HFM papers and related resources, please refer to our website.


#### A Comprehensive Survey of Foundation Models in Medicine

+ Khan, Wasif, Seowung Leem, Kyle B. See, Joshua K. Wong, Shaoting Zhang, and Ruogu Fang. “A Comprehensive Survey of Foundation Models in Medicine.” arXiv, January 16, 2025. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.10729.

+ [URL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10729) 
+ Wasif Khan, Seowung Leem, Kyle B. See, Joshua K. Wong, Shaoting Zhang, Ruogu Fang
+ Foundation models (FMs) are large-scale deep-learning models trained on extensive datasets using self-supervised techniques. These models serve as a base for various downstream tasks, including healthcare. FMs have been adopted with great success across various domains within healthcare, including natural language processing (NLP), computer vision, graph learning, biology, and omics. Existing healthcare-based surveys have not yet included all of these domains. Therefore, this survey provides a comprehensive overview of FMs in healthcare. We focus on the history, learning strategies, flagship models, applications, and challenges of FMs. We explore how FMs such as the BERT and GPT families are reshaping various healthcare domains, including clinical large language models, medical image analysis, and omics data. Furthermore, we provide a detailed taxonomy of healthcare applications facilitated by FMs, such as clinical NLP, medical computer vision, graph learning, and other biology-related tasks. Despite the promising opportunities FMs provide, they also have several associated challenges, which are explained in detail. We also outline potential future directions to provide researchers and practitioners with insights into the potential and limitations of FMs in healthcare to advance their deployment and mitigate associated risks.


####  Scientific Large Language Models: A Survey on Biological & Chemical Domains
+ Qiang Zhang, Keyang Ding, Tianwen Lyv, Xinda Wang, Qingyu Yin, Yiwen Zhang, Jing Yu, Yuhao Wang, Xiaotong Li, Zhuoyi Xiang, Kehua Feng, Xiang Zhuang, Zeyuan Wang, Ming Qin, Mengyao Zhang, Jinlu Zhang, Jiyu Cui, Tao Huang, Pengju Yan, Renjun Xu, Hongyang Chen, Xiaolin Li, Xiaohui Fan, Huabin Xing, Huajun Chen
+ Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as a transformative power in enhancing natural language comprehension, representing a significant stride toward artificial general intelligence. The application of LLMs extends beyond conventional linguistic boundaries, encompassing specialized linguistic systems developed within various scientific disciplines. This growing interest has led to the advent of scientific LLMs, a novel subclass specifically engineered for facilitating scientific discovery. As a burgeoning area in the community of AI for Science, scientific LLMs warrant comprehensive exploration. However, a systematic and up-to-date survey introducing them is currently lacking. In this paper, we endeavor to methodically delineate the concept of "scientific language", whilst providing a thorough review of the latest advancements in scientific LLMs. Given the expansive realm of scientific disciplines, our analysis adopts a focused lens, concentrating on the biological and chemical domains. This includes an in-depth examination of LLMs for textual knowledge, small molecules, macromolecular proteins, genomic sequences, and their combinations, analyzing them in terms of model architectures, capabilities, datasets, and evaluation. Finally, we critically examine the prevailing challenges and point out promising research directions along with the advances of LLMs. By offering a comprehensive overview of technical developments in this field, this survey aspires to be an invaluable resource for researchers navigating the intricate landscape of scientific LLMs.


## More Readings: 




<!--excerpt.start-->

